
Under-attack Pos Malaysia says doing its best to speed up deliveries
By
FMT Reporters
-
November 14, 2020 1:04 PM
Pos Malaysia has come under increasing pressure over its late deliveries and poor customer service.
PETALING JAYA: After social media became rife with complaints about Pos Malaysia’s late deliveries and subpar customer service, the national postal service says it is doing its best to address these issues.

Pos Malaysia said the Covid-19 pandemic and restrictions imposed with the current partial lockdown had caused disruptions at its integrated parcel centre, while several post offices have been closed.

A spokesman told FMT Pos Malaysia was aware of the complaints on social media, maintaining that its social media team had been hard at work to attend to the gripes of customers.

“We continue to carry out our obligation by implementing mitigation plans and alternative measures to increase our capacity, ensuring the continuity of processing and deliveries of items.

“We are also sourcing for additional manpower to ramp up our operations to manage the high demand, especially for the recently concluded 11.11 sale and delivery of everyday items.

“We assure our customers that we are doing our best to ensure courier items are delivered to their doorstep as soon as possible or in certain areas, as soon as the situation permits.”

The spokesman also said areas with restrictions imposed have already been prompted to expect delivery delays, adding that Pos Malaysia is carrying out digitalisation efforts to enhance its services.

Social media has been abuzz with dissatisfaction about Pos Malaysia’s late deliveries and customer service, with one of the posts on the national postal service’s Facebook page receiving more than 3,200 comments from people inquiring about their parcels.

Complaints over poor service in Pos Malaysia’s Facebook page.
The most recent posts on its Facebook page included an average of 500 to 600 comments from people asking Pos Malaysia to track their parcels down, with the majority of them attaching tracking numbers.

Several of the users also said they had filed complaints with the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission through its complaints portal, and those using Pos Malaysia’s services to conduct their online businesses were especially frustrated.

“Please release my parcels. It’s all food. 800 containers you know. Who is going to cover the RM7,000+ in losses?,” asked Syaira Ali on Facebook.

“#posmalaysia, how much longer do you want to hold customers’ parcels? It has been almost a month, when can I get my parcel? This parcel is for business, (it is) not personal,” said @aimanazizan95 on Twitter.

Another Twitter account, @farahharith, said she had a parcel which was dispatched from a Pos Malaysia branch in Perak on Oct 30 but she only received it in Sungai Buloh, Selangor, yesterday.

“I got especially angry when I was told the customer service is a third party (contractor), and it’s near impossible to call or speak to anyone at Pos Malaysia itself,” she said.

Another Twitter user by the name of @dfc1601 called Pos Malaysia’s customer service “a joke”, adding that “everything is an automated reply that essentially tells you nothing.”

“As if 2020 wasn’t stressful enough,” added @dfc1601.

In April, Pos Malaysia issued a statement asking the public to be patient after a video of mountains of parcels at its KLIA hub went viral on Twitter, with Pos Malaysia stating that the movement control order (MCO) had created a backlog of parcels.

In June, it issued another statement saying it was experiencing a surge of parcel volume, especially in East Malaysia.

