
Foton celebrates milestone 500th unit turnover to J&T Express
[Image: Manny De Los Reyes]

By Manny De Los Reyes
May 10, 2021
15
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
WhatsApp
Must Read
NewsWheels.ph - February 10, 20200
‘SEE YOU AT LTO’: Brokenhearted woman gets summoned for failure to wear helmet
The Land Transportation Office (LTO) has summoned the woman in a viral clip for not wearing a...
Read more
NewsWheels.ph - June 10, 20200
LTO launches online portal for student driver’s permit, driver’s license applications
Those who would like to apply for a student driver's permit or a driver's license may now...
Read more
NewsArgie Aguja - November 9, 20200
Beating the deadline: How and where to get an EasyTrip/AutoSweep RFID
Last month, the Department of Transportation (DOTr) issued an advisory that moves the start of the mandatory...
Read more
[Image: Manny De Los Reyes]

Manny De Los Reyes
Manny de los Reyes, motoring editor of wheels.ph as well as its print edition, has been writing about cars since 1995. His life has been deeply intertwined with cars, having cleaned and maintained the family cars as a teenager, operating a paint shop and entering national car shows in college, before joining Nissan after graduation. He handled car brands as a copywriter afterwards. Today, when he's not testing or writing about cars or attending motoring events, he is home reading novels or playing with his shih tzu.
PhotoFoton Philippines President Rommel Sytin turns over the ceremonial ignition key to Philippine Global Jet Express (J&T Express PH) CEO Dean Ding
Foton Motor Philippines, Inc. (FMPI) has turned over its 500th unit to one of the leading express delivery companies in Southeast Asia, J&T Express. Under the leadership of Philippine Global Jet Express, Inc., J&T Express is bringing about a remarkable boost in mobility for everyone’s benefit. The strengthened fleet is expected to bring faster services to our fellowmen.

“It all started more than two years ago when both of our companies partnered together to provide stronger logistics mobility service to adapt with the ever-growing demands of delivery and the booming success of e-commerce,” says Foton Motor Philippines, Inc. (FMPI) President, Rommel Sytin.

Foton Philippines and J&T Express executives pose beside the Foton trucks
Started by the initial turnover of 60 units of Foton Tornado 2E E4 F-Vans, J&T Express has developed its trust in Foton, leading to further close collaboration and solidifying the partnership. Going through highs and lows, both companies have successfully staved off challenges to achieve greater heights.

Foton Philippines and Philippine Global Jet Express (J&T Express PH) executives pose for a photo before the ceremonial turnover
To date, J&T Express has acquired fleets of Foton commercial vehicles ranging from Gratour Series (GS) to Light Duty Trucks (LDT), up to the Heavy Duty Trucks (HDT). Most of these units are Tornado M 4.2C under the LDT category.

Foton Philippines President Rommel Sytin delivers his opening remarks
Embodying versatility combined with proven dependability, the Foton Tornado M 4.2C has empowered businesses from big corporations to small and medium businesses. Powered by an internationally recognized 3.8L ISF Cummins engine, it produces a maximum power output of 154hp at 2,600 rpm and 500Nm of torque from 1,200 to 1900 rpm—offering solid strength for delivering products across cities.

Philippine Global Jet Express (J&T Express PH) Vice President Zoe Chi delivers her speech at the turnover
“It is important to forge a partnership with a fleet provider that provides us quality units with the latest advancement in technology and reliable 24/7 customer service support. Indeed, FOTON has been consistent with their promise,” says Vice President of J&T Express PH, Zoe Chi.

Foton Philippines President Rommel Sytin (left) and Philippine Global Jet Express (J&T Express PH) CEO Dean Ding try out the cabin of a Foton truck
With an extensive commitment to innovation, Foton offers game-changing programs and promos to intensify its after-sales service that comes with a wide selection of benefits from performance, convenience, safety, technology, and even affordability.

“We decided to choose the Foton brand as our long-time partner in business since they have enough physical stores and service centers to conduct repair and maintenance for our trucks which are allocated nationwide,” says Chi.

Foton PH currently has dealerships strategically located at different points of the country, equipped and ready to provide necessary services to every customer.

For inquiries, call your nearest Foton dealer or sales hotline at 0999-999-9998.You may also explore and reach Foton PH on various digital platforms via https://linktr.ee/FOTONPhilippines.
